and eventually got to the point I
remember thinking nothing is working
I've gone to all these doctors we've
paid all this money nothing's working
and you kept going on about Kido and
that's when I was like what what's the
harm like at this point I can't like if
I'm gonna be in more pain because I've
had one mill what's the difference I'm
in pain every day in a way my hair's
falling out my nails are brittle and so
that's when I then started the ketogenic
diet but there were a lot of times I
wanted to throw my hands up but I just
kept reminding myself all right Lisa
you've got a choice throw your hands up
and slowly start dying or fighting
slowly start living everyone welcome to
hell theory today's guest is none other
than impact theory is very own Lisa
Bilyeu she's one of the founding members
of quest nutrition and she's my
co-founder and impact theory and if her
last name did not give it away she is
also my wife on top of all that she is
one of the most extraordinary human
beings I have ever encountered and I'm
not saying that because she's my wife
she's my wife because I believe that to
the core of my being and what we're
gonna be talking about today is one of
the reasons why I think that how she's
handled her battle with catastrophic
dysbiosis I've watched her fight through
debilitating pain for years on her
journey to recovery and we wanted to
share with you guys what we have learned
thus far it is very much still a journey
I am sad to report but I wanted to bring
people up to speed on everything that
we've learned so far
but the thing before we can get to that
we need to rewind tell people how this
all kicked off yeah and well we had
dreamed big our whole lives and we
finally had gotten like the house of our
dreams quest was successful we thought
we were riding high one of the dreams I
had had was to do like that
rap music video where I've got champagne
I'm standing by the waterfall and I'm
pouring it over me and we actually had
the waterfall and we had the swim
important we had champagne and you took
a photo and I'm drinking the champagne
from the bottle and like what was it
five ten minutes later I was like my
stomach is really hurting
and within the next thirty minutes it
was hard for me to breathe within an
hour like it was so debilitating I
couldn't even step in the swimmin pool
just the water
brushing again first I'm like yeah the
pressure and I just said to you babe I
don't know what's going on but I can't
stand I can't breathe my entire stomach
had protruded out and so that was really
the start which knowing now there was
really the start was 15 years before but
it finally all caught up with me and
that was the the day it really just
changed my life it's interesting that
that's like the marker for you that's
not how it started in my mind where it
started for me was we were about to go
to Vegas I had shown up to work with my
luggage we were getting on a plane in a
couple of hours I was so excited needed
a break and you text me and you're like
I'm feeling weird and I'm like what do
you mean you're feeling weird and then
the next sex was I need to leave and
then the text after that was I just
threw up and I was like what like do you
have the flu which was what I assumed
was oh this is the flu and so for a long
time I was like I didn't think it had
anything to do with your digestion I
thought you had the flu and so then
finding out that okay it wasn't a flu it
was probably a parasite and then this
notion of a threshold event and tell
people about your background that led to
the threshold event yeah so around 60s I
grew up very skinny and so my entire
life especially as a girl I would get
older women they'd be like enjoy it now
enjoy it now and then growing up I would
see my mom eat very little and looking
back now I do believe that she was some
form of anorexia and she was eating very
little then my sister when she got to 16
she would drink slim fast and so it was
such a different world for me until I
hit 16 and I started to really develop
and and a boyfriend at the time grabbed
my thought my hip and was like oh aren't
you getting fat and that one common
maybe because I've been primed for it
you know with like women need to be
skinny you need
a little and I would eat everything I
saw so that was where that shift changed
for me and I went from eating anything I
wanted not really thinking about body
image or anything like that to people
saying oh Jesus really fatties really
caloric so we cut out cheese and then
our carbs are really bad you see so I
cut out carbs and before I realized I
was I'd cut out carbs I'd cut out fat
and all I was eating was protein and
then before I knew it I asked how I was
eating year after year not realizing
that the immune systems carried in your
gut so I was getting sick which when we
first met I was getting sick what once a
month he wasn't quite that much but it
was I paid it every couple of months
probably yeah I didn't realize though
why I was getting sick and so I was
taking antibiotics and I would feel
better and then within a month or two
I'd get sick again I suffered from chest
infections that was like a thing and I
would get sick antibiotics six
antibiotics
I had a reduced diet so I wasn't
replenishing my GART with different
types of bacteria and over year after
year I started finding it more and more
difficult to stomach foods and I didn't
know why I just thought it was me
because here I was with a husband who
could stomach anything and my family
could as well so I literally just pegged
it is oh it's me it's nothing I can do
it's not it's out of my control so yeah
our whole relationship together
I could always eat whatever I wanted I
would put on fat but I never got an
upset stomach whereas you wouldn't put
on fat B you did get an upset stomach
and that was something that you hid from
me for a long time not necessarily even
like intent I mean maybe you were but
didn't feel like you were intentionally
hiding it but I was very surprised by
that and then sort of doubly surprised
that you would eat like that anyway if
it hurt your stomach and I think one
thing that will be very interesting for
people to hear is that relationship with
why didn't you give up the food if it
was hurting your stomach that much how
did that play into some of the emotional
distress around this because that really
I think is is the thing I most want
people to understand is the physical
discomfort is is
terrifying but the reason that this
episode is so powerful is the emotional
distress became all-consuming for a
while yeah when you say it's funny I
never really thought of it I was like I
was deliberately hiding it from you but
I was like now if it's not I was lying
but the one thing that's always been
very prominent with me is being aware of
other people around you so when I'm sick
I was like you are affected by it and to
just think that it's happening to me
because I'm feeling the pain I think is
very unfair and rather dismissive of the
partnership that we have if I'm sick it
affects both of us I'm not gonna be that
person that's like woe is me I'm gonna
stay in bed and you have to serve me
it's this is affecting both of us and I
felt somewhat guilty that I was bringing
that as part of our day-to-day lives and
then on top of that especially its quest
was developing I'm like here we are we
own one of the largest nutrition
companies in the world and like I'm sick
I can barely eat our product and I
didn't want that a to have a reflection
of me but then also because you were the
president of the company I didn't want
that to then have an influence on how
other people saw you or saw the company
and so there was an element of shame to
her that I don't think people really
talked about and I was just ashamed for
the this is happening to me and so
that's probably part of why I didn't
change the way ia and just suffered in
silence because I didn't want people to
be like oh my god are you okay like oh
what's wrong oh you can't even eat I'm
product so I just thought better to just
not say anything and basically suffer in
silence not realizing I was doing worse
and worse than my body if I hadn't
realized that like alright Lisa now is
the time if you just stop then you can
recover quick of course I would
everything's in hindsight but I didn't
so I would just kept low and I just
thought well this is just me because
that was the belief I had this is just
me this is just my body there's nothing
I can do about it so by golly I'm gonna
have as much wonderful moments with my
husband as I can because there's nothing
I can do about it which is ridiculous
now understanding what we've kind of
discovered but that was definitely why
I hit it and the shame of it I've never
used that word before actually when it's
come to this but that's absolutely the
truth it's really interesting and I
think that that is part of what makes
your story so powerful and one of the
things that I find just beyond inspiring
with you is your journey has been
twofold one it's been stepping out of
being a housewife and becoming an
entrepreneur
and that has had this radical shift in
your personality and how you approach
the world and all of that and then this
other sort of radical shift from not
wanting to be too loud not wanting to be
too needy not wanting to be judged by
other people and now you know it's like
you've stepped into your own sort of bad
[__] and like pink hair and like if
people really understood how far from
that you started I think the journey is
that much more interesting and now walk
us through I want to to linger on the
word shame for a minute and how you go
from that to now you talk so openly
about because in some ways and you this
is not my favorite topic in the world
but in some ways this comes down to a
life where you really have to think
about bowel movements and things like
that and that's where this gets
embarrassing and so talk about that talk
about the fear of just leaving the house
because you don't know where the next
restroom is going to be all of that and
then how we end up here where you're
able to do this episode yeah initially
it was definitely because it was I
didn't want to be a burden to you or the
company like we'd put so much energy and
ourselves into quests so the last thing
I ever wanted was to be the thing that
took it down right or to be the thing
that gave it a tarnished reputation
because the owners you know wife can
actually like even eat the food see if
she can't eat it right like how are the
people so I was very aware of that and
then also I think just self-confidence I
didn't have the confidence I do now to
say yes I'm going through this and I
didn't want to appear weak that was a
big thing for me
because you and your business partners
are very alpha males and so here I was
just trying to keep up and stay strong
and so I didn't want to appear weak to
you guys and not in the sense of like
you would dismiss me or think less of me
but more like I wanted you all to rely
on me if [__] hits the fan you go to
Lisa Lisa's gonna figure it out but if
Lisa's sick and lisas in pain and Lisa
moans all the time then you're not gonna
do it so I had had a vision of who I
wanted to be who I wanted you guys to
see me as and I thought that didn't fit
in with a plan to be honest and then the
team I honestly thought being sick was a
weakness and so even my team I hid it
because I didn't want them to think that
I was weak because of course in those
moments I thought oh well if they see me
as weak they're gonna walk all over me
and obviously now I know that's not true
but I definitely thought that and so
that would play on in my mind is like
you've got to stay strong you got to
stay strong and you know I mean at that
point I every time I a I ran straight to
the bathroom I was doubled over in pain
I couldn't sustain any food or any water
so doing that two three times a day I
could just about make it to work I could
just about get through my eight 10 12
hour day and I could just about get home
enough to like get back into bed yeah I
mean so part the next part will be you
know how you go from that to where you
are now because now you're still ultra
diehard your [__] hits a fan turn to you
you're gonna see it through but you
don't any longer have this feeling like
you have to hide things was it sort of
just the gradual sort of I've [__]
told so many people now that whatever or
was it a conscious shift mentally of
like I can't be I can't be beholden to
this anymore I need to the more I can be
honest and the more flexible I am yeah
it was definitely slowly I mean I have a
very strong memory of being in your
office and we just had a meeting and you
said something and everyone had left and
I was so upset and I just bored into
tears and I'm
like I can't believe it like you're
talking to me like this and I was just a
mess and you looked at me and you're
like who are you and you didn't say it's
like a mean thing it was kind of like
what has happened to you and that face
that you made me in that moment like I
still remember it to this day and I just
like you look to me like you didn't know
me I remember being like you've upset me
you've done it what and I was so
justified in my feelings I really
thought I was and it wasn't even what
you said it was just your wide eyes were
you like what the [__] is happening and
that's when like I remember just like in
tears and I went into your restroom and
I was like almost hyperventilating and I
was like what the [__] is happening and
so that's when I realized I had gone in
very serious and that the food issue
wasn't just me eating it was my emotions
it was how I was feeling my hair was
falling out my nails were breaking and
it just becomes like maybe this is more
serious than I think you know and then
it would come to the fact I would put
pepper on my food one night I even said
to you baby I'm gonna try to put some
pepper on my food and I spoke a little
bit of pepper on my chicken
and what within 30 minutes I was so
hunched over in agony you were like you
need to go to the hospital and you
almost ran me to the emergency room with
a bit of pepper
and so those sorts of things made me
realize it's not necessarily even
something to be shameful anymore I need
to get help
like I caused all this yeah it's getting
scary and so that's when I would start
to tell people close to me because also
they could fill me retreating I wasn't
going to parties they were inviting me I
too I never want to leave the house and
so I felt like they just thought I was a
bad friend and that's when I started to
have to tell them look I'm really
struggling with this and then the more I
would talk to more people would reach
out like oh my god me too Lisa me -
thank you so much for talking about this
because I've realized it's not just
about where you're from or how much
money you have it's actually about like
real life issues that everyone can be a
victim of and so people thanking me made
me gag gave me the strength to speak out
more to really talk about it more to
tell people the strategies that we were
discovering because if I can if I have
to go through this I've got a choice
I can actually use this to help other
people and in that I can be empowered or
I can play the victim and so I made a
choice I'm gonna use this as if being
the best thing that's ever happened to
me because now I can help other people
yeah I think that it's been really neat
to watch you get positive feedback from
people as you extend yourself and talk
about this so I want to recap for people
so we start with this threshold event
where you've been from having dietary
issues from the time you're very young
to ultimately really restricting what
you're eating then on top of that you're
taking antibiotics routinely I'm talking
four times maybe five times a year four
years so that's now just decimated the
diversity of your microbiome you're not
able to go outside of sort of really
basic eating habits for a while and then
whatever the parasite was that you got
we have this threshold moment it looks
like the flu doesn't go away and then we
begin like a medical journey now the
medical journey has been the part that's
been very scary because you were
misdiagnosed so many times and the the
classic statement that to a hammer every
problem is a nail I never quite
understood what people meant by that and
what it means is if your
gastroenterologist then this is a
problem with your intestines if you're
an immunologist the problems with your
immune system it's like everybody can
only see the solution that fits within
what they understand about the world so
first you were diagnosed which he said
it was an immune issue and that you had
a compromised immune system so he was
just off enough that we almost had a
massive problem so you were gonna get
transfusions of your immune system and I
just have this really uneasy feeling
that this is such a big response let's
try all of the simpler things first and
so we end up going down that path
begin and I mean I am cutting out so
much stuff including the swallowing of
the camera and ah Skippy colonoscopy
ruling out Crohn's disease ruling out
cancer like I mean just a whole host of
[__] things that we wind down the
path of ruling out but finally we center
around this seems to be entirely based
on what you eat like everything you do
is a reaction away you eat if everything
you do is a reaction away you eat this
is almost certainly a microbiome problem
if this is a microbiome problem then we
should be able to begin attacking it
from that front we started beginning to
stack wins now one thing I want people
to really understand though is you're
stepping into a cloud of confusion it is
so hard to figure out exactly what's
happening that it it becomes almost
paralyzing in its confusion so walk me
through what is it like as you're going
through this like do you remember
certain milestones where you just wanted
to throw your hands up and be like this
doesn't I don't know what to do for me
yes and no specifically what happened
that made me throw my hands up but it
was every time we went to a doctor they
said oh I know what it is it's this and
take this and you'll be fine and I
remember thinking at the time which
again like the myth is like the more
money you pay the better the doctor and
so every time it was a disappointment
and a frustration and eventually got to
the point I remember thinking nothing is
working I've gone to all these doctors
we've paid all this money nothing's
working and you kept going on about Kido
and that's when I was like what what's
the harm like at this point I can't like
if I'm gonna be in more pain because
I've had one milk what's the difference
I'm in pain every day in a way my hair's
falling out my nails are brittle and so
that's when I then started the ketogenic
diet but there were a lot of times I
wanted to throw my hands up but I just
kept reminding myself all right Lisa
you've got a choice throw your hands up
and slowly start dying or fight and
slowly start living you know it's really
interesting so I'm thinking of the
person that is in the cloud of confusion
right now they're in pain maybe they've
tried something maybe they've read some
stuff online they have no idea what to
do what to try or worse they've tried
everything and nothing has worked and
that is very much how it felt and the
thing that I've learned going through
this is that basically first principles
is is the only thing that's going to
save you so if you boil everything down
to sort of the the simplest I know these
things to be true right what I was just
walking us through it the correlation
between eating something and a reaction
seems to be one-to-one
okay so principle number one this is
tied to eating all right principle
number two when you fast you feel better
but you can't fast forever a and B there
does seem to be some sort of critical
threshold where you've now fasted for so
long that it that in and of itself
starts to become painful and you just
start like breaking these things into
these like really simple very discrete
chunks taking things one by one so first
win was going on a keto diet okay
probably why did that work one it's very
limited number of ingredients too it's
going to be removing a lot of the
carbohydrates that probably play a
problem three ketogenic diet is largely
anti-inflammatory so going back to first
principles what is the inflammation you
have to understand the epithelial lining
of the intestines so if this is a
dietary problem something is breaking
down in that chain so when I said
earlier that this journey is the reason
that hell theory exists is because I
didn't understand I didn't even know
what a microbiome was when we started
this journey so just figuring out that
there's all this bacteria that resides
in your gut bacteria viruses fungi like
there's all this this entire ecosystem
and if anything gets out of balance in
that ecosystem then it can cause like
this this communication two-way
communication from bacteria to your
brain your brain to bacteria has this
massive influence on your
neurotransmitters which was some of the
mood dysregulation and then layer on top
of that just being in pain which causes
its own mood dysregulation and so you I
couldn't even get my [__] arms around
the problem because I didn't understand
what was going on like this is a key
part
your story and this really bothers me
that this is a key part of your story
it's damaging to my self-esteem but it's
nonetheless true so one if you're going
through this I wish it weren't so but
you must begin to learn because you
can't get to first principles until you
understand what the [__] is going on
meaning that you understand at least
some of the biology now when I think
about how limited my understanding of
the biology really is fair but it's also
as we've learned about this it's really
really helped us get a hold of this okay
so why is this damaging to my
self-esteem because it wasn't until you
realized I wasn't gonna be able to solve
your problem and that you were gonna
have to take ownership which was really
[__] hard for me to hear but it was
so true like for all my energy and
effort there was just just always enough
gap between what I could understand from
you and what I was learning that I
couldn't be truly useful to you and so
once you took ownership of it that's
when we made real leaps and bounds and
so anybody watching right now I I really
wish it weren't so but they they have
got to take ownership of this that if
they're going to get better it is
entirely up to them so talk to me a
little bit about like what taking
ownership has meant for you how you've
found a doctor that you resonate with
even though it's you and I take very
different approaches there and and sort
of where you begin to get momentum yeah
when with this first happen I would turn
to you like what am i doing next like
what's the answer like you were reading
from what 4:00 in the morning to 8:00 in
the morning every single day and then
you were going to quest so all morning
it was dedicated to that but then you go
and build the business and so for me I'm
just like it's all-consuming it's every
ounce is every moment of my day is
consumed by am I in pain can i II I'm
starving I'm getting dizzy but my
stomach hurts so I can't eat like that
how I was um every single day feeding
and so when it came to the point where
you were like somewhat you have to like
take ownership some of this has to be on
you I'm understanding the knowledge but
then a you have to be you have to
reciprocate
you have to show me that you're
listening and we're gonna try things and
you can't be so dogmatic cuz I was so
fearful of food at that point and I
think that caused a little bit of strain
for me in you because I just want you to
nurture me cuddle me and be like
everything's alright babe here take this
and you'll be fine and over time as it
just got I thought it would be a we
cannot be fine and right in a month
later two months later three months late
and I'm like wow started we thought this
was going to be fine we'll go to Vegas
another time and it obviously wasn't so
realizing the severity of it was a big
deal realizing that I can only expect so
much from you rightly so you're a human
you've got a life to lead just cuz
you're my husband it's not even X I want
people to because it would be easy to
say well Tom just isn't dedicated to it
and and this is even bigger so I'm gonna
skip ahead a little bit you having a
doctor that you trust was critical and
it may be critical for a few reasons one
she was she is doing things for you that
are actually working and so that's you
know part of what gives you the momentum
to keep trying the things that she's
telling you to do but number two neuro
chemically is because there's this a
two-way communication path between your
microbiome and your brain for instance
this is why people tell you don't eat
when you're upset when you're anxious
whatever because it will be metabolized
by the microbiota differently than if
you're relaxed that is so [__] crazy
to me
the fact that the emotional state that
you're in will impact how your body not
even your body how your microbiome
responds to the food that you intake
that is crazy and shows you like how big
of a thing this is so if you're going in
to get a doctor's help and you're
already standoffish you don't have the
trust then that in and of itself is
problematic because it's setting you up
for that two-way communication it's
you're not saying the right thing so
it's kind of like some things are almost
for sure a placebo but the placebo can't
work if you know it's a placebo so it's
like you have to believe in what you do
now uh nocebo I see both tell me more
it's basically someone that gives you
something and you know there's no way
this is gonna work so even if it might
work because you so believe it's not
going to it does the opposite where do
you feel that women of impact baby no
see both but do you not remember though
me knew we had a discussion because at
one point like I was just breaking down
had enough and cuz I had felt like have
you read anything have you done anything
new what am I trying and we sat down and
you looked at me you said look if I
stopped work and all I did was pay
attention to your health and there was
nothing else I did in life could I fix
you maybe and it came to I had to take
ownership I had to start doing a diary
going back to like what can people do at
home is a big thing which I know may be
controversial I came to the conclusion
that everything is my fault so with me
being this sick as I am yes the doctors
gave me antibiotics they didn't
force-feed me I took them myself
I swallowed them myself secondly when
the doctor said you know I shouldn't
really be prescribing you this minibar
antibiotics but here you go did I ever
ask why did I ever go on the internet
and say what does long-term antibiotics
do to you no never so did the doctor
make me have a restrictor diet right so
all these things are in Mike how did
that help you for the people at home who
are screaming at their sight it allowed
me to recognize that if I can do this to
myself
I can also heal myself and taking full
ownership of that instead of saying I
can't I don't know why me this isn't
working right I can do that or I can say
this is your fault you got yourself into
it but the great news is you can get
yourself out of it and having that type
of ownership started going what does
that look like what does full ownership
of this condition mean it means that I
have to write down every single thing
that I eat it means I have to write down
every bowel movement now I have I have
to even write down what I do when I eat
where did I eat did I eat at home while
in a meeting did I eat at home by the
swimming pool and starting to look at
patterns because in your mind is like
there's no pattern and then I would look
half to two weeks and I'd be like
that's really funny the three times I
during the shoot which is a pattern I
noticed every time an impact Theory
shoot was on I always got problems but I
would eat the same thing now until I
rode it down and started to notice those
patterns I wasn't able to address it so
ownership to me meant that I could take
control it meant that I could start to
fix things and then start to pride
myself on being right we talk about this
all the time
pride myself on being the person that is
going to keep going to find the right
answer and that is why how I can take
four years that we've been doing this
and now look at it and say this could be
this can possibly be the best thing
that's ever happened to me because it
has empowered me to change the way that
I think we built this set this whole
show specifically to basically address
my health and when I start reading
comments about people seeing interviews
that you've done I'm like oh my God
thank you so much this really hit home
now I can start to help myself it's like
there's a great knock-on effect to me
being to me taking ownership of that and
then to also just acknowledge the
difference that made in our relationship
because I think for you you seeing that
I was taking ownership helped like you
approach it like okay well it's not just
the battery with you're dealing with on
your own she's actually like becoming a
part of it and we realized together how
much mindset plays into this and
initially I thought it was such BS when
the doctor the first call we ever had
with one of our doctors more the
holistic side of things and I've got my
diary and I'm all excited because I'm
like I'm the best like customer ever
I've got everything written down they
want to know what I ate three weeks ago
for lunch I can tell them exactly what I
a and I had the book ready and they look
they you know on the phone and they're
like so what do you do when you eat and
I was all you mean what I eat right and
they're like no no what do you do when
you eat it's like I actually don't care
what you eat right now and it's not even
interesting to me I need to know what
you do when you eat and that was the
first time I realized how much my
lifestyle how much the stress of the
business how long I worked not sleeping
much all of that how much it actually
affects my eating and I never understood
I thought that was all BS or woowoo
the mind what's the mind got to do with
the GART and it wasn't until I became
open to any suggestion no matter how
much I didn't believe in it the second I
was open to it and said this could be it
the placebo effect even if I'm wrong but
this could be it I'll try anything now
acupuncture yep let's do it you want me
to go on a vegan diet cool I've got this
you want me to go to all you know
artificial food sure like whatever it is
that could potentially help me I go in
thinking this is the answer yeah that is
one thing that that I really want to
acknowledge you for and hopefully by
proxy acknowledge a lot of the people
that are watching is it is extraordinary
to see how tenacious you've been through
this how you've never given up the
amount of pain that you've had to deal
with and tolerate and stay optimistic
and to stay positive to stay focused to
channel it into helping other people I
mean it really is extraordinary and
trust me I get I am beyond biased but
the truth of the matter is that part of
the reason that this relationship has
been the greatest thing in my life since
I met you is because you have that just
tenacity and that the the strength of
character to see something like this
through which is really really
extraordinary so we find functional
medicine functional medicine is I think
better named root cause medicine so
there are they're asking a fundamentally
different question not what do I give
you to make you better or ameliorate
your symptoms what is actually causing
the problem which is why that doctor was
asking you what do you do when you eat
because he's trying to reach into that
cloud of confusion and figure out
alright there's a whole lot of things
some of them lifestyle some of this is
almost certainly going to be stop doing
that instead of just adding something to
what you're doing it's going to be a
stripping away of other things and so
addressing each thing unto itself now
another thing that we have to talk about
is the amount of variability in a human
with a normal microbiome
is massive and so even early in our
relationship when your dysbiosis was
certainly sub a threshold where it was
like a thing that we were thinking about
you could eat things that I couldn't eat
in terms of gaining fat
I could eat things in terms of not
upsetting my stomach that you couldn't
eat and now knowing what they are of
course for you
massive triggers soy sesame a lot of
oils clean oil Jesus all right in fact
then oil hidden oils this is give people
give people a little taste of what this
becomes because you look at your food
right you go out for instance I went to
a burger place yeah place and very clean
the whole thing is like antibiotic-free
me so you're like oh my god are they
really care they said they really care
this is a good quality because actually
initially I also thought the quality of
food was just a ripoff Organic is just
it's just a way to add a couple of bucks
to a grass-fed that's utter BS like it's
just a way to get money from rich people
is what I thought and I would get
continuous stomach ache and it's what I
would consider safe foods and eventually
we called up the restaurant and we're
like what do you marinate your chicken
because it was just grilled it was
literally grilled chicken what do you my
sesame oil I didn't know that was a
thing but you can't see it
so it never dawned on me that it was
that type of thing and it was like other
restaurants that had great reviews you
know massive and yell open we went to an
Italian restaurant Italian not like a
fast food chain that you know coats
itself is done it wasn't actually an
Italian restaurant and I always now say
because I understand hidden oils so I
always use the phrase a hundred percent
olive oil not olive oil has to be 100
percent so I'd said to the waiter
do you use 100% olive oil oh I'm not
actually sure and I stopped with a mast
like it's all a woman on the table so he
goes off he comes back and he tells me
this chef chef said no they don't have a
hundred percent olive oil that's when I
took the little button I'm like yeah but
there's olive oil on the table that they
you dip your bread in he's like that's
not a hundred percent olive oil it was
mixed with canola and I'm like you're an
Italian restaurant you have a book
two on the table and it's not a hundred
percent that's good oils blended oil
that's when I realized that you sadly
cannot trust anything and that's where
you if you're in a situation like myself
you have to take full control over it
now here's the other part of it
you take full control but what happens
is you become psychotic and I recognize
that I've become psychotic right and and
it becomes that now I've put fear into
myself when I eat out and what does that
fear do it stresses me out well what's
bad for the gut in your digestion yeah
stress so it's like this addressing
issues staying calm taking deep breaths
calling ahead of time finding out what
restaurants I can go to asking do you
have a hundred percent olive oil because
if the restaurant says now I just won't
go yeah that that has been maybe the
most frustrating thing for me and all
this one it is so powerful and this is
why I brought this up it is so powerful
once you begin to identify your
particular triggers they're not gonna be
anybody else's trigger I mean look some
people may share them but like we tried
the fodmap fob map didn't work for you
just adhering to that now we found that
there were items on the fodmap that were
problematic and so there is it's
pointing at something that maybe is the
issue for the vast majority of people
with this but it isn't for everybody and
so you really do have to own going
through finding out what your triggers
are but now that we know what your
triggers are like you can't have too
much seafood in a row you can have some
but not too much can't have soy sauce
can't have sesame oil and so it's it is
once you know your triggers then it's
just a matter of making sure that you
avoid them but the problem is in the
restaurant industry a lot of times they
don't even know so they don't know if
it's 100% canola or 100% olive oil I
can't tell you how many waiters have had
to go oh let me check I don't know now
they'll ultimately of course is to get
to the point where you can drink canola
oil straight and it doesn't upset your
stomach we're not there yet
but one thing that that I would be
interested to know is like what do you
think you should try next what do you
see is the the next frontier for you to
try slowly introducing things that my
body screaming don't have so I'd she
spoke to my doctor today about this my
thing is I have to actually try soy and
she's told me three weeks ago
to do it and I admitted to her today I
was like cuz she's like Oh have you
tried it and I was like no and I was
like I totally know it's my own fear
it's I'm so fearful of what its gonna do
to me I'm stopping myself but I don't
want to try it when I'm fearful so I've
had to work my way through it over these
last three weeks and I feel like I'm
actually I was gonna do it this week so
I feel like I'm actually in a really
good place to be like alright Lee see
you've got this like and I have to have
that mentality because I know how
powerful the mind is just a quick story
at Christmastime every other day od
Coldstone and I could manage it and now
I have half the amount and I'll be in
pain so part of me goes what up or you
could have it then so it must be okay
now and I've learnt to never assess
things what's your hypothesis my
hypothesis is I was on vacation ten days
yeah
ten days come up this was completely
shot we were on vacation we were relaxed
so I understand that that's very
powerful so in trying all these other
little things that she's telling me to
slowly introduce I need to make sure
that when I do that my mindset and my
conditioning is right because I want it
to be a true evaluation let's say so
Sesame's sorry so it's gonna be the
first thing so all these little things
that I want to try it I have to be slow
I have to understand it's a process when
I thought it was gonna be a week and I
was gonna be fine and four years later
I've just actually told myself Lisa this
is a journey you're gonna go on for the
rest of your life but everything now
that I'm doing I'm like this is a theory
which is why we could the show healthier
we had such a strong idea of what it was
that there's no way it could be this and
when we started the show is because you
were learning so much that had started
to rebut the things that we believed in
so then it's like okay well our beliefs
right now are holding us back and so why
not open ourselves up to being like to
even the things that we think is utterly
false open ourselves up let's get some
experts on let's call this a theory
because what we learn now in 5-10 years
it's probably going to be different as
technology changes so that was another
thing of like width is showing just the
mentality I have now is like it's a
theory
it could work and I always told myself
like I never say like oh it might not
but it's just gonna it's a theory so
that way if it doesn't work I'm not
beating myself up over it or going like
oh [__] now I'm back to square one it's
so cool you tried something else move on
to the next I have something I wanna try
you already know about it
oh yeah the carnival die yeah so here
and again this is just going to first
principles and if any of these first
principles are inaccurate then it
wouldn't work but we've had some truly
fascinating guests on the show who've
talked about the way that plants protect
themselves from predation is through
chemistry and to make sure that they're
not getting eaten they're going to do
things to make themselves less desirable
so whether that's upsetting your stomach
whether that's tasting hot and
activating because it's actually not hot
it's just activating the pain receptors
in your tongue which then is perceived
by your brain as being hot which is very
fascinating but that that's the plant
attempting to not beaten by anything or
perhaps not to be eaten by certain types
of things so okay using first principles
plants don't want to be the way that
they avoid predation is through creating
chemical toxins basically that we are
one of the predators and so some and
nobody argues this that this I don't
think there is a single human being on
the planet that argues that some plants
are poisonous the most deadly toxins on
earth they're not spider venom snake
venom they're [__] plant toxins so
looking at things like arsenic which is
a plant toxin you begin to understand
what's going on okay so some plants are
toxic now the question is are all plants
toxic is it just degrees of toxicity for
human or are there really some plants
that want to eat now I'm differentiating
between fruit and sort of the the base
plant the non flowering part of the
plant so then you've got if all plants
are toxic if interesting theory to me if
all plants are toxic and one of the ways
that they react on the body is by
breaking down that epithelial lining in
your gut that single cell membrane that
breaks then things are
able to go from the gut into the body
which they're not technically in the
body as long as the epithelial lining is
in place so and the reason that the the
immune system is there in the gut I
thought that this was one of those light
bulb moments for me the reason that the
immune system is at the gut is because
that's where [__] cross the
barrier into the body it's like the
passport control of the body so people
roll up got to have some [__] arm
guards right there you don't need them
you know once people are already in
because they've already been checked but
you need them right there so you put the
immune system there so they're ready to
[__] respond something gets through
because that barrier is broken that
piece of material could be a dead piece
of the bacteria that are supposed to be
in your gut could be random protein
whatever something gets through your
[__] body triggers the immune system
it pounces on it the immune system gets
heightened you can imagine if you're
being invaded the Armed Forces are gonna
be [__] everywhere guns blazing shoot
first ask questions later and that's
what happens and the the hypothesis goes
every bit of autoimmune disease whether
it's psoriasis whether it's the gut
problems that you're having whether it's
multiple sclerosis whether it's
Parkinson's disease the hypothesis is
that that's all related to eating plants
that are causing a problem so because we
have not gotten you back to perfect I
feel like we have to keep experimenting
you know I think there are two problems
with your gut we've run a lot of tests
on your gut and there's no question your
diversity of microbiome is low so
building that back up is far harder than
people think it has at least for you not
been enough to just take a probiotic so
looking at what would be the next thing
so one we need to find a way to increase
the diversity in your microbiome and
then to I think we at least have to run
the experiment cuz we've never taken
we've taken your vegetable intake to
very near almost zero to zero but we've
never done carnivore we've done zero
vegetable but we've never done true
carnivore nose-to-tail eating everything
organ meat all that stuff so if the
principles that I just laid out
are actually accurate it would be from
first principles I can predict that it
will work now we won't know if it will
actually work until we try it so but
that's me I'm super keen to try it and
we've spoken about this because I know
we've had guests on that have spoken
endlessly about it and for me it's like
I'm very open to it right now I'm
actually making great progress with my
doctor so I don't want to change
anything while I'm still making progress
when I hit another wall then I'll be
very open to it and I guess we've never
even really laid out people maybe like
so what kind of disposes does she have
so the things that we've come to
identify with me is I had SIBO which is
small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
which means that you've got overgrowth
of bacteria in your small intestines
both good and bad which is not where
you're supposed to have it and if you
people like eat broccoli sauerkraut all
that stuff that's good for you it only
feeds the bacteria in the wrong place
because it's fermenting it generates a
lot of gas correct yep so I have SIBO
which means I was going by a low fodmap
diet which really helped leaky guts I
definitely had leaky gut and then we had
a guest on actually that started to talk
about lectins and this is why I love our
show because I'll be watching an episode
and the guests will say something and
it's like you just make take the advice
and listen to it and see if it works
from her see if it doesn't and I
remember a doctor one of the guys that
was on the show and he was on Matt
lectins and he was explaining about the
skin and then the Seas and why they
exist and Here I am eating like eggplant
like it's going out of fashion tomatoes
and peppers and I still couldn't
identify why I was in pain because I was
like but I've been eating these for a
while and I introduced them slowly and
I'm fine so there must be something else
until he started explaining it so
understanding what the food is doing to
your body also helps I'm like actually
that makes sense because if I have a
leaky car and I'm eating these lectins
well that all makes sense so I cut out
the lectins it really helped me I had a
parasite which we found and I can't take
antibiotics to kill it off so I'm
actually now for the last four months
I've been taking these herbal drops that
I put on my tongue twice
today morning and night but all of these
things I'm discovering by each
individual thing like I'm trying
something seeing how it affects me but
yeah so I just had to explain that just
so much that we've been addressing so
it's like these little things one by one
what's the order being patient being
religious about it as well
you know because like if I want to get
rid of the parasite and I'm only doing
my drops half of the time well then I
haven't committed to it so committing to
that new-path as well it's gonna is very
big deal I think yes so one more time I
just want to say that it has been
absolutely breathtaking to watch you be
so consistent over so many years to not
give up to not throw your hands up and
just quit which can only imagine how
tempting it was to do that because it
when everything you try ends the same
way it is very difficult to stay focused
and keep pushing forward and so that's
been super super inspiring and I hope
people take that away in your story and
you've covered so much of it on your
socials which anybody that's going
through anything even rhymes with this
should follow you at least a bill you
and and backtrack and go back through
some of the stuff and see all the before
and afters you've done with the way that
your physique changed when you couldn't
eat like you said your hair was falling
out and your nails were brittle and it
really challenged your identities of
femininity and sexuality and you didn't
feel sexy I mean that like could do a
whole nother [__] episode just around
sort of the mental aspects of this game
and so you know seeing you push through
that is has been really really
impressive like you said take the worst
thing that's ever happened to you and
find a way to make it the best thing and
to see you become stronger on the other
side of that and more yourself and
unafraid of what other people think and
really focused on helping people has
really really been inspiring to watch
and I don't often have an excuse to just
[__] gush so I will take this in the
hope that it inspires somebody else
who's in the middle of it when you don't
feel strong and you don't feel like
continuing which I'm sure you didn't
either but you just keep putting one
in front of the other and keep going and
keep going you know coming back to first
principles what's working what's not how
do we eliminate how do we predict and
just working our way through every
person's own sort of the individual
thing trying to get to the the root
cause and and that's the fix so and the
one thing I just want to add that she
that you just mentioned that I didn't
say earlier is this entire journey
everything we've been through for the
last four years the hardest thing really
was my identity and it really was
feeling like I didn't feel sexy and you
know for me my identity definitely was
and it still is now like I want you to
be attracted to me I want you to like
your eyes pop out of your head every
time you see me and I want to be a
nurturer and this like beautiful woman
that you you know that would you saw on
the wedding our wedding day and I
started to not feel like I was that
anymore right
and so just becoming okay with being
that honest I think was one of the
biggest steps that I took in order to
start healing and so that's one advice I
give anyone at home whether you're a man
or a woman or you know just to be very
honest and if you have someone close to
you that you can be that honest with it
won't judge you
it helped me let go of that and then
just focus on getting better or this has
been a lot of fun I literally could keep
going all day talking to you about this
and we do we talk about this a lot and
hopefully people have gleaned a bunch of
useful stuff from this we will
definitely have to do part two as you
continue to learn new things and make
more progress all right everybody
thank you so much for joining us thank
you I hope that you guys got a lot out
of this because I would love to do more
and more episodes with my beloved wife
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe be sure to follow her at Lisa
bill you and until next time my friends
be legendary
thank you guys so much for watching and
being a part of this community if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential